# RC-2026-Kangaroo-Rat-Project

This data is the data collected from Rowan Crowley's kangaroo rat senior thesis project. Small mammal trapping at Hastings Natural History Reservation and Fort Ord Natural Reserve presented two species of kangaroo rats, the Narrow-faced kangaroo rat Dipodomys Venustus and the Heerman's kangaroo rat Dipodyms heermanni respectively. 

These two locations have varying ecosystem structures. Fort Ord Natural Reserve has soil that is entirely loose sand dunes and includes maritime chapparal, grasslands, oak savannah and oak woodland. Hastings Natural History reservation has sandy loam soil, which includes more clay which makes the soil more dense. It's habitats include grasslands, Chamise chapparal and oak woodlands. These species have different habitat preferences the Dipodomys Heermanni prefering grasslands and the Dipodomys Venustus prefer the chapparal. After small mammal trapping at these sites only dipodomys heermanni have been found and measured from Fort Ord Natural reserve, and only Dipodomys Venustus have been found and measured from Hastings Natural History reservation. This study aims to determine what morphological differences occur between Dipodomys venustus and Dipodyms heermanni. Our hypothesis is that these measurements can be used to differentiate between species and we will analyze the data to test each measurements ability to predict species.

The results of this study can be used by future scientists for field identification of the species. These species are very similar and can be difficult to tell apart in the field sometimes requiring genetic analysis for correct identification which can be expensive. These species have a lot of overlap in morphometric measurements and it can be difficult to accurately assign species. These new measurements could help provide further evidence for species and help to define species descriptions better. We will test these measurement to see if they will make species identification easier and more accurate between researchers. 

